Hello everyone, let's see this famous problem.
And it's a slightly tricky problem, but it can be solved if you spend some time on it, like 15, 20 minutes
now, you can easily solve it.
You just have to see what happens with the last person.
If you are able to see what happens with the last person, you will be able to figure out did the recurrence
in it.
So what we have is we have given n friends.
Each one can be paired or stay single or can stay single.
Each friend can be paired once.
They cannot be paired multiple number of times, find out Total number of ways in which friends can remain single or
be paired up.
So it's a very, very famous problem.
So for example, start with an example.
If you have 3 friends one, two or three, what can happen?
So the first case is simple.
All of them.
are single.
The second case's let's say one two pairs up and three remain single.
lets say one remain single.
Two and three pairs up.
Or 2 remain single.
And one.
Three pairs up right.
These are the.
Different number of ways in which this pairing and single thing can happen.
Right.
So basically what we are doing is either we are pairing them or they can remain single right.
Tell me, guys.
Let's say.
Let's see for every dynamic programming problem.
There will be some options.
You will be given some options.
You have to weigh all the options, and you have to choose the best one, in combitorial problems.
You have to weigh all the options and either add, multiply or subtract them.
Depends on the problem.
Therefore, there is always an option.
Just remember this.
You just have to go over all the options and look what's happening.
So let's have these three things.
So let's talk about the first or the last one of them.
It doesn't matter.
Right.
So let's talk about the third, third friend.
And let's say there were some other friends instead of third.
Let me say.
nth friend
cool, let me generalize it.
What about the nth friend
He can remain single so.
in How many ways can he remain single?
Simple.
If I have 1,2.. n-1 friends, I can ask the number of ways they want to be paired up
or remain single.
It doesn't matter to the nth.
One right, he can remain single if he wants to right?
So if he wants to remain single.
That means can I say that f(n) is equal to simple f(n-1) first case why, when nth friend is
single, nth friend is single, if he's single then pair or do whatever you want to do with the
n minus one friends
But he will stay single.
So where is the the answer kept of doing whatever to the n minus one friends?
It is it.
It is f(n-1) right?
So of course, the DP state is very simply here that n is the number of ways.
Number of ways of.
pairing or.
Not pairing means being single.
n friends
n friends right.
So I'm just writing it very quickly.
My writing is not that good and so f(n) is f(n-1), which is when nth friend is single plus let's say
nth friend does not want to stay single.
Not single, he wants to pair up right, so let's say nth friend anything wants to pair up with someone right
out of one, two and n minus one people.
Anyone.
right So let's say he pairs with with the n minus one.
guy.
right then where is the answer here?
So we have one pair, right?
Which is n and n-1.
now we don't know.
We don't have to think what happens with the rest right because whatever happens with the rest that many times
that pair can come in a series, right that can, that manytimes that pair can come in the combinations that we are
making.
Right.
So if they both pair up, how many of them are left?
We have n minus two left.
Right.
So we'll simply say f(n-2)
right because nth one.
is pairing with n-1
How many are left n-2
Now think about this case.
Let's say he wants to pair up with not just n minus one, but there can be a pair of n minus two.
Right.
Which is n and n minus two.
There can be a pair of n, n minus three.
there can be a pair of n, n minus four.
How many such pairs are possible for the last guy?
nth guy.
he is pairing with n-1
And he can pair with any of them from one to n minus one.
How many options?
n-1 options, right so for all those n minus one pairs.
What are the number of ways of assembling other guys, other people, they are f(n-2) right?
Basically now.
Let's say
nth friend wants to pair up with the.
n minus second guy, again will have n minus two only, right?
Because he's pairing with n minus second guy.
But still there are one, two, .. n minus three left and n minus one left.
so, Total n minus two will be left right.
We want to we want to assemble them similarly.
Okay.
So this was for if n pairs with n minus one.
This was fourth and bears within minus two.
And then there will be another, which is if n pairs with n minus three, which will be same, which
is f(n-2) only because these two are a pair.
Right?
All the other can assemble themselves in the way they want to cool.
So this will go until n minus one.
So instead of writing f(n-2) again and again, what we can say, we can simply say that it is
equals to nothing but.
f(n-2) X n-1, because they can pair with
anyone of them.
cool, I hope you understood this recursive relation always guys there will be the solution in the
problem itself.
So what was the solution to the problem here?
Can either remain single or be paired.
Just have to consider two options for any one guy.
If you're considering it for the first guy or the nth, it doesn't matter.
You can think of it both the way it is.
The difference between bottom up and top down.
right think of it in any way.
Just think about any one of them and derive the recursive relation.
Which will apply on the others as well.
cool.
So, yeah, this was very easy, very simple, very classical problem.
In the next part we discussed some more, very easy and classical combitorial problem and then we'll
move on to some advanced problems
cool, thanks.